[REG-1279 v2] Add new in-depth getting started tutorial (#50)
Regression-Games/RegressionDocs: docs/tutorials/building-your-first-bot.mdx

---
sidebar_label: 'Integrating and Building Your First Bot'
---

# Integrating and Building Your First Bot

:::info

This tutorial assumes a basic understanding of Unity concepts. If you get stuck, join our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/925SYVse2H) and we can help you out!

:::

In this tutorial, we will get a simple bot integrated and running in a game. The bot will run to a random position and then
shoot the enemy in our playground sample. This tutorial will cover:

- How to integrate the RG Unity SDK into your game
- How to add various state and actions attributes so your bot can understand the game

> - How to use a ready-to-go bot from the Bot Marketplace, and how to modify its code

Author: Not really official or not here - this was just more of an explanation vs trying to name it something specific. Happy to reword if you have an idea!

> - How to use a ready-to-go bot from the Bot Marketplace, and how to modify its code

Reviewer: This is fine for the doc as-is, I was thinking about what we might want users to know this concept as in the future. Could be generic with "Premade Bot", "Community Bot", "Quickstart Bot", etc. Or we could be one of those companies who uses fun terminology to describe pieces of their product - like anything that can be used interchangeably with our different tools/SDKs could be a "Neuron" or something along those lines... I guess making Marketplace Bots "Pre-Trained Neurons"? Mind wandering now

## Add the RGOverlayCanvas

The RGOverlayCanvas prefab provides a drag and drop overlay that let's you easily start and stop bots running
in your scene. This is extremely useful when initially creating and debugging your bots.

:::caution

Note that this overlay is **required to be placed into your scene** for Regression Games to function. The visibility
of the overlay can be hidden through the settings. If you have multiple scenes where a bot should be used, place
this into each scene - the SDK will ensure that only one instance is present.

:::

You can find this prefab by searching in the project file window for `RGOverlayCanvas` (make sure the "In Packages" filter is selected),
or by navigating to the **Packages** > **Regression Games Unity Bots** > **Runtime** > **Prefabs** folder. Drag this overlay onto your 
scene in the object hierarchy.

![Screenshot of the search pane for the RGOverlayCanvas.](./img/building-your-first-bot/overlay_4.png)

Once you have this overlay available, you can click play to see this in action! A

> Regression Games logo will appear at the bottom of your screen. Click this button to see a dropdown for your bots. You

Author: I think screen is correct here? The scene is the actual game (i.e. bottom of the scene would be the ground?)

    [Tooltip("The character to spawn")]
    private GameObject rgBotPrefab;

    // Expose a field in the editor to define where the bot should spawn
    [SerializeField]
    [Tooltip("Spawn point for RG Bots")]
    private Transform botSpawnPoint;

    public override GameObject SpawnBot(bool lateJoin, BotInformation botInformation)
    {
        // Loads the bot prefab and spawns it into the scene
        var bot = Instantiate(rgBotPrefab, Vector3.zero, Quaternion.identity);
        bot.transform.position = botSpawnPoint.position;
        return bot;
    }
    
    void Start()
    {
        // Prepares the RG SDK for spawning bots
        RGBotServerListener.GetInstance()?.StartGame();
        RGBotServerListener.GetInstance()?.SpawnBots();
    }

    private void OnDestroy()
    {
        // Stops all bots and cleans up the RG SDK
        RGBotServerListener.GetInstance()?.StopGame();
    }

}
```

Once this component is implemented, create an empty object within the scene, rename it to `RGBotSpawner` (just so we can find it later),
and attach this `CharacterBotSpawnManager` component to that object. Position it within the scene wherever you want to spawn your bot 

> (**make sure to set the Y coordinate to 0 so your bot does not float!**), and drag `RGBotSpawner`'s own Transform into the 

Author: I think dragging and dropping either is fine! I would need to try it out... in the meantime, fixed the long sentence issue. We could probably do it the code-only way by getting the game object, but this is written this way because it lends easier to existing games where the spawn point is already provided, and they may just be following along with their own game code.

**Bot Spawn Point** entry of the RGBotSpawner's `CharacterBotSpawnManager` component. Finally, find the 

> **Player** prefab provided by the sample project (located within `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Prefabs/Player.prefab`), and drag 

Reviewer: Let's avoid parenthesis for important instructions like this.

```suggestion
**Player** prefab under `Assets > FirstBotDemo > Demo > Prefabs` and drag 
```

> this into the **Rg Bot Prefab** entry. Regression Games now knows how to load and unload bots from your scene! Make sure to save the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it into the **Rg Bot Prefab** entry. Regression Games now knows how to load and unload bots from your scene! Make sure to save the 
```

scene.

![Screenshot of the RGOverlayCanvas.](./img/building-your-first-bot/spawner_6.png)

## Add state information to relevant GameObjects

We are onto the final parts of the integration! We need to indicate the following within our game:

> * What game state our bots can see

Reviewer: Thinking that "game state" might not make sense to someone unfamiliar with our concepts. Also I don't think we need bullets if there's only two of them. Suggestion:

We are onto the final parts of the integration! We now need to indicate what information the bot has access to in the game (referred to here as the game's "state"), and which actions the bot can perform.

* What actions our bots can perform

> First, let's add the state information. Regression Games marks states for bot consumption using the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's define some state information. Regression Games marks states for bot consumption using the 
```

Reviewer: And for following sentence, suggestion:

"Regression Games uses the `[RGState]` attribute to designate which state information bots can consume"

[`[RGState]` attribute](/integrating-with-unity/defining-states#3---rgstate-fieldpropertymethod-attribute).
This attribute can be applied to any public method that returns a value or any variable within a `MonoBehaviour`, and

> it will automatically be sent to the bot.

Reviewer: Maybe instead, (new sentence) "Any values designated this way are automatically passed to your bots."

> First, open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerAttack.cs` file, and add the following method to the class, which

Reviewer: You already use "First" above. I think you can just combine this paragraph with the previous one

Reviewer: I also see that you're mixing how you define paths - sometimes you use `>` and sometimes `/`. Let's pick one or the other (I personally prefer the `>` because I think it looks nice)

> First, open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerAttack.cs` file, and add the following method to the class, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerAttack.cs` file, and add the following method to the class. This
```

will allow our bot to know when it is currently in an attack animation (make sure to import any missing imports, with
`using RegressionGames;`):

```csharp
[RGState]
public bool IsAttacking()
{
    return !string.IsNullOrEmpty(_attackAnimation) && _animator.GetBool(_attackAnimation);
}
```

Then, within the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/EnemyController.cs` file, add the following attributes to the existing `GetCurrentHp()`
and `GetTotalHp()` methods:

```csharp
/*
* Gets the enemies current hp
*/

> [RGState("CurrentHealth")]

Reviewer: I see the value in showing users that they can override a state name, but that isn't explained here so this looks confusing. Why not just call the methods `CurrentHealth()` and `MaxHealth()` for the purpose of the tutorial?

public int GetCurrentHp()
{
    return _currentHp;
}

/*
* Gets the enemy's total HP from its assigned info
*/
[RGState("MaxHealth")]

> public int GetTotalHp()

Author: I was hoping to avoid changing the original code, but maybe I can... I was about to respond to this saying we have examples in our RGState code, but I realize we don't seem to have examples in the reference for these difference options. We should likely add that at some point as well...

> public int GetTotalHp()

Author: @RG-nAmKcAz I couldn't find this in the docs, but does the field need to be public to be accessible with the new state approach? If you see my new code above on line 203, I added the attribute to a private field - I still need to test but figured I'd ask here.

{
    if (!enemyInfo)
    {
        Debug.LogWarning($"{gameObject.name} is missing entity info. Please check the inspector and assign missing fields");
        return default;
    }
    return enemyInfo.hp;
}
```

That's it! The bot will now be able to see the current and max

> health of the enemy, and whether or not the player is attacking. See the full [state documentation](/integrating-with-unity/defining-states)

Reviewer: I think reverse these

"The bot will now be able to tell when it is attacking the enemy, and what the enemy's current and max health values are."

> to see all the ways you can define state within your game, including grabbing all of the state from a MonoBehaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for more information on defining states within your game.
```

Concerned that the "including grabbing all of the state from a MonoBehaviour" won't make sense to someone at this point in the tutorial since they haven't gotten to the point of actually _using_ states for anything.

## Implement actions your bot can take

> Similar to states, we will now tag the actions that a bot can take, using [`[RGAction]`](/integrating-with-unity/defining-actions). In our case, a bot can either move or attack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to states, we will now define actions that the bot can take using the [`[RGAction]`](/integrating-with-unity/defining-actions) attribute. In our case, a bot can either move or attack.
```

Author: From my research:

"Similar To” is the correct expression. “Similarly To” is grammatically incorrect and should be avoided. You may use “Similarly” by itself, with no preposition to accompany it, if you’d like. But it’d be either “Similar To” or just “Similarly”, never “Similarly To”.

> Open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerInputControl.cs` file, and replace the contents with the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerInputControl.cs` file, and replace its contents with the following.
```

This change does a few things:

> 1. Adds an editor field that allows us to mark a specific prefab instance as being a bot (vs a character controlled by a real player).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Adds an editor field that allows us to mark a specific prefab instance as being controlled by a bot (versus a real player).
```

> 2. Uses that field to ensure that keyboard/input handling only applies to non-bot game objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Ensures that physical inputs from mouse and keyboard are ignored by bots (so that you can play alongside your bot without interfering with its movements)
```

Do we need to describe this at all though? This tutorial doesn't allow a bot + player combo so it's not relevant to the sample

> 3. Marks the movement method as being an action that the bot can perform.

Reviewer: Designates? "Marks" doesn't sound right to me, but I'm not sure what other word I'd use

```csharp
using RegressionGames;
using UnityEngine;

namespace FirstBotDemo
{
    public class PlayerInputControl : MonoBehaviour
    {
        [Header("Character Input Values")]
        public Vector2 move;
        public Vector2 look;
        public bool jump;

        [Header("Movement Settings")]
        public bool analogMovement;

>         [Header("BotSettings")] public bool isBot = true;

Reviewer 2: We should add line comments to this file that correlate the #1,2,3 bullets above to which lines in the code achieve each bullet.

Author: Added!

        private void Update()
        {
            if (!isBot)
            {
                MoveInput(new Vector2(Input.GetAxis("Horizontal"), Input.GetAxis("Vertical")));
                JumpInput(Input.GetButtonDown("Jump"));
            }
        }
        
        [RGAction("MoveInDirection")]
        public void MoveInput(Vector2 newMoveDirection)
        {
            move = newMoveDirection;
        }
        
        public void JumpInput(bool newJumpState)
        {
            jump = newJumpState;
        }
    }
}
```

> Then, open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerAttack.cs` file again, and add the following method to the class,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerAttack.cs` file again, and add the following method to the class.
```

> which defines an action that allows a bot to target an enemy and use an ability:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This defines an action that allows the bot to target an enemy and use an ability on that enemy:
```

```csharp
[RGAction]
public void SelectAndAttackEnemy(int enemyId, int ability)
{
    var enemy = RGFindUtils.Instance.FindOneByInstanceId<EnemyController>(enemyId);
    SelectEnemy(enemy);
    Attack(abilities[ability]);
}
```

As a last step here, in the player input code, you will see that we introduced an `isBot` field to the `PlayerInputControl` component.
This will allow our player to be controlled by the bot logic when it is set to true. However, there is an existing `Player`
GameObject in the scene, which we want to control using our manual input controls. Click this `Player` in the object hierarchy,

> find the `Player Input Control` component, set `Is Bot` to unchecked, and then save (you may find that it is already unchecked).

Reviewer: Since we're doing all of this in the context of bots rather than human players, I think it makes more sense to default `isBot` to `true` and have the user check the box on their bot prefab. Once you started talking about the `Player` object, I was confused about how the Player is used in this tutorial, but it looks like they aren't - this step is just to make sure the Player doesn't "break" from these changes

Author: Maybe I can remove all of this because from all of my tests so far, no change is actually needed. It seems like the defaults work as expected.

> find the `Player Input Control` component, set `Is Bot` to unchecked, and then save (you may find that it is already unchecked).

Reviewer 2: set `Is Bot` to `false` (unchecked).  These are programmers/developers, they would think of this field as the boolean it is.

Author: Fixed!

![Screenshot of the player prefab with the components added.](./img/building-your-first-bot/is_bot.png)

> That's it for actions! A bot may now call into two actions (moving and attacking), which we will demonstrate in the section

Reviewer 2: `call into` sounds weird.

Maybe reword this to convey that the bot now has 2 available actions it can invoke (moving or attacking).

> when we build our bot.

Reviewer 2: `which we will demonstrate in the section when we build our bot`... Where is this section ? 

The next section talks about using a ready to go bot, but does not communicate or reference back to anything about the states/actions we just spent time creating.

## Using a ready-to-go bot from the Bot Marketplace

Now that our integration is complete, our final step is to use an implementation of a bot. We will start with a template
found in our [Bot Marketplace](https://play.regression.gg/marketplace), and then will show you where to edit its code.

> Go to [this page](https://play.regression.gg/marketplace/1) to see the existing bot, and click "Create Bot" to create a copy 

Reviewer: Give the link "meaning" -> 
Find the [Simple Kiting Bot in the Bot Marketplace](https://play.regression.gg/marketplace/1) and click "Create Bot" to copy it to your Regression Games account.

Author: Fixed

of the bot. On the bot creation page, give it a name such as "KitingBot", and then click "Create Bot". You will then be
taken to the Agent Builder tool; feel free to click around and see how the bot works!

![Screenshot of the bot creation page.](./img/building-your-first-bot/marketplace_bot.png)

![Screenshot of the bot creation page.](./img/building-your-first-bot/create_bot_9.png)

![Screenshot of the agent builder configuration for this bot.](./img/building-your-first-bot/agent_builder.png)

Go back to Unity, and within the **Regression Games** menu in the menu bar, click **Synchronize Bots with RG**. This will pull your new
bot into your Unity project. 

![Screenshot of the agent builder configuration for this bot.](./img/building-your-first-bot/synchronize_bots.png)

At this point, you can click play, and then select the Regression Games overlay button in the bottom

> right of your game screen. Use the dropdown to select the bot you just created, and then click "Start Bot". The bot will begin to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
right corner of your Scene. Use the dropdown to select the bot you just created, and then click "Start Bot". The bot will begin to
```

Author: Same comment as above regarding scene vs screen - I do mean the screen here. Unless viewport is preferred? I suppose according to unity, "Scene View" is the most correct term, so I can change it to that.

Author: Fixed

run around and shoot the enemy!

![Screenshot of the bot creation page.](./img/building-your-first-bot/start_bot_10.png)

> You now have a working bot, fully integrated into your game! If you want to modify the behavior of the bot, you can make edits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have a working bot, fully integrated into your game! If you want to modify the bot's behavior, you can make edits
```

within the Agent Builder, or edit the code in your Unity project at `Assets/RegressionGames/Runtime/Bots/BOTNAME/Nodes`

## Next Steps

Congratulations, you've now experienced the integration process for bots! Using this guide and our reference material,
you can now integrate bots into your own game. If you have any questions, please reach out to us on our 

> [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/925SYVse2H). Please note that we offer **dedicated support** for your integration, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/925SYVse2H). Please note that we offer **dedicated support** for your integration. 
```

> we are happy to do it for you or walk you through it on a call step by step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are happy to work directly with your project for you, or walk you step-by-step through the integration process over a call.
```

Author: Maybe "work directly on your project for you?" I was thinking with your project sounds weird since we aren't working with the project, we are working on it. (as I type this, grammarly is trying to correct "with" to "on" as well)

:::

![Screenshot of the package imported into the project](./img/building-your-first-bot/welcome_3.png)

After importing the package, you will be greeted by a login screen. Create an account at
[https://play.regression.gg](https://play.regression.gg) and login to Unity with your account credentials. If you need to login again in the future, 
you can enter your login info by visiting the **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Regression Games** menu.

## Restart Unity and your IDE

After installing the Regression Games Unity Bots package and its dependencies into Unity, please restart Unity 
and your code editor (e.g. Rider or Visual Studio). Without this step, Unity and your code editor may not properly 
resolve the new packages even after Unity recompiles the scripts.

## Add the RGOverlayCanvas

The RGOverlayCanvas prefab provides a drag and drop overlay that lets you easily start and stop bots running
in your scene. This is extremely useful when initially creating and debugging your bots.

:::caution

Note that this overlay **must be present in your scene** for Regression Games to function. The visibility

> of the overlay can be hidden through the settings. If you have multiple scenes where a bot will be used,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the overlay can be hidden through its settings. If you have multiple scenes where a bot will be used,
```

Author: I think it should be `the`? It's not the overlay's settings - it's the settings of the RG SDK.

Reviewer: I'd make that explicit then - I thought this was talking about hiding the component from its GameObject. If there's another setting then we should mention where that is

(referred to here as the game's "state"), and which actions the bot can perform.

First, let's define some state information. Regression Games marks states for bot consumption using the 
[`[RGState]` attribute](/integrating-with-unity/defining-states#3---rgstate-fieldpropertymethod-attribute).
This attribute can be applied to any public method that returns a value or any variable within a `MonoBehaviour`.
Any values designated this way are automatically passed to your bots.

First, open the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/Player/PlayerAttack.cs` file, and add the following method to the class. This
will allow our bot to know when it is currently in an attack animation (make sure to import any missing imports, with
`using RegressionGames;`):

```csharp
[RGState]
public bool IsAttacking()
{
    return !string.IsNullOrEmpty(_attackAnimation) && _animator.GetBool(_attackAnimation);
}
```

Then, within the `Assets/FirstBotDemo/Demo/Scripts/EnemyController.cs` file, add the following attributes to the existing `GetCurrentHp()`
and `GetTotalHp()` methods:

```csharp
// Near line 18
[RGState("CurrentHealth")]

> private int _currentHp;

Reviewer: Sounds like this needs to be public now

Author: @RG-nAmKcAz not sure if you saw my comment about this in the PR - would this work? Or does this need to be public? I wasn't sure with the new changes.

Author: I see now, I missed the public part in the docs.

Author: Let me know what you think of this... I think having them change it to public is good so they learn that it has to be, but also now the naming scheme is inconsistent with the `_`. Maybe that's ideal/best practice? i.e. maybe that means "this is public but only because RG wants to see it - treat it as private!" Not sure... looking for opinions.

Reviewer: I don't like the idea of asking people to either violate naming conventions or rename the variable and update all occurrences of it in the project. They can if they want to, but I think this is where we suggest introducing a new readonly variable to expose that data
